---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "hpegl_vmaas_instance Resource - vmaas-terraform-resources"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Instance resource facilitates creating,
          updating and deleting virtual machines.
          For creating an instance, provide a unique name and all the Mandatory(Required) parameters.
          It is recommend to use the Vmware type for provisioning.
---

# hpegl_vmaas_instance (Resource)

Instance resource facilitates creating,
		updating and deleting virtual machines.
		For creating an instance, provide a unique name and all the Mandatory(Required) parameters.
		It is recommend to use the Vmware type for provisioning.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# (C) Copyright 2021 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP

resource "hpegl_vmaas_instance" "tf_instance" {
  name          = "instance_tf"
  cloud_id      = data.hpegl_vmaas_cloud.cloud.id
  group_id      = data.hpegl_vmaas_group.default_group.id
  layout_id     = data.hpegl_vmaas_layout.vmware.id
  plan_id       = data.hpegl_vmaas_plan.g1_small.id
  instance_code = data.hpegl_vmaas_layout.vmware.instance_code
  networks {
    id = data.hpegl_vmaas_network.blue_net.id
  }

  volumes {
    name         = "root"
    size         = 5
    datastore_id = "auto"
  }

  labels = ["test"]
  tags = {
    name = "vmaas"
    data = "test_vm"
  }
  config {
    resource_pool_id = data.hpegl_vmaas_resourcePool.cluster.id
    template         = "apache-centos7-x86_64-09072020"
  }

  copies = 1
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **cloud_id** (Number) Unique ID to identify a cloud.
- **config** (Block Set, Min: 1) Configuration details for the instance to be provisioned. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--config))
- **group_id** (Number) Unique ID to identify a group.
- **instance_code** (String) Unique code used to identify the instance type.
- **layout_id** (Number) Unique ID to identify a layout.
- **name** (String) Name of the instance to be provisioned.
- **network** (Block List, Min: 1) Details of the network to which the instance should belong. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--network))
- **plan_id** (Number) Unique ID to identify a plan.
- **volume** (Block List, Min: 1) A list of volumes to be created inside a provisioned instance.
				It can have a root volume and other secondary volumes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--volume))

### Optional

- **clone** (Block Set) If Clone is provided, this instance will created from cloning an existing instance (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--clone))
- **evars** (Map of String) Environment Variables to be added to the provisioned instance.
- **hostname** (String) Hostname for the instance
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **labels** (List of String) A string used for labelling instances.
- **power_schedule_id** (Number) Scheduled power operations
- **scale** (Number) Number of nodes within an instance.
- **tags** (Map of String) A list of key and value pairs used to tag instances of similar type.
- **timeouts** (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- **status** (String) Status of the instance .It can be one among these:
				 Provisioning/Failed/Unknown/Running.

<a id="nestedblock--config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `config`

Required:

- **resource_pool_id** (Number) Unique ID to identify a resource pool.

Optional:

- **asset_tag** (String) Asset tag
- **create_user** (Boolean) If true new user will be created
- **no_agent** (Boolean) If true agent will not be installed on the instance.
- **template** (Number) Unique ID for the template
- **vm_folder** (String) Folder name where will be stored.


<a id="nestedblock--network"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network`

Required:

- **id** (Number) Unique ID to identify a network.


<a id="nestedblock--volume"></a>
### Nested Schema for `volume`

Required:

- **datastore_id** (String) Unique ID to identify a datastore.
- **name** (String) Unique name for the volume.
- **size** (Number) Size of the volume in GB.

Optional:

- **persist_volume_on_update** (Boolean)
- **root** (Boolean) If true then the given volume as considered as root volume.

Read-Only:

- **id** (Number) ID for the volume


<a id="nestedblock--clone"></a>
### Nested Schema for `clone`

Required:

- **source_instance_id** (String) Instance ID of the source.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- **create** (String)
- **delete** (String)
- **read** (String)
- **update** (String)


